
========
lv2-pure
========

.. default-domain:: pure
.. module:: lv2

Version @version@, |today|

Albert Gräf <aggraef@gmail.com>

Copying
=======

lv2-pure is Copyright (c) 2014 by Albert Gräf. It is distributed under a
3-clause BSD license, please check the COPYING file included in the
distribution for details.

Installation
============

Get the latest source from
https://bitbucket.org/purelang/pure-lang/downloads/lv2-pure-@version@.tar.gz.

Make sure that you have the latest Pure version installed. (At the time of
this writing, the latest Pure source from hg is needed.)

Run ``make`` to compile and ``sudo make install`` to install the module. This
installs the lv2.pure module and the source of the LV2 plugin wrapper
(lv2pure.c, lv2pure.h) in the Pure library directory, and the pure2lv2 script
in the bin directory, under the same installation prefix as the Pure
interpreter. To uninstall the module, use ``sudo make uninstall``. There are a
number of other targets (mostly for maintainers), please see the Makefile for
details.

``make`` tries to guess your Pure installation directory and platform-specific
setup. If it gets this wrong, you can set some variables manually, please see
the Makefile for details.

Description
===========

This package provides a generic LV2 plugin wrapper for Pure. LV2_ is the new
Linux audio plugin standard (LADSPA successor) which aims to be portable and
extensible. The package contains some C wrapper code which can be linked with
a batch-compiled Pure script to obtain an LV2 plugin module. A shell script
named pure2lv2 is included, which lets you compile the plugin and turn it into
an LV2 bundle, ready to be loaded by any LV2 host. There's also an lv2.pure
module which provides some operations needed to implement the functionality of
a plugin, such as functions to read and write LV2 ports in Pure.

.. _LV2: http://lv2plug.in/

Documentation still needs to be written. For the time being, please refer to
the lv2.pure script for a description of the programming interface, and to the
scripts in the examples folder for LV2 plugin examples written in Pure.

.. Enjoy!
